# reading [rfc5109](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc5109)
========================================================

## traditional FEC schemes
--------------------------
such as Reed-Solomon, and Hamming codes.

* [rfc2733](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc2733)
* [rfc3009](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc3009)

bandwidth utilization issue

## unequal error protection
------------------------------------
* protection levels
    - lower levels -- greater protection, smaller group sizes
    - higher levels -- inverse
* different protection level for different data importance.
the more important parts of the data are always at the beginning of the data packet.
* media payload -- raw user data
* media header -- rtp header
* media packet -- rtp header + raw user data
* fec packet -- take media packets as input
    - output: media packets
    - output: fec packets for error correction
* fec header -- header info in fec packet
* fec level header -- header info in fec packet for each level
* fec payload -- payload of fec packet. may be divided into multiple levels

* relationship between fec packet and media packet

fec packet(s) | media packet(s)
:------------:|:--------------:
1|N (N >= 1)
N (N >= 1)|1

### basic operation
-------------------
* XOR
* offset mask *m(k)*
* the amount of data is protected at level k -- *L(k)*

### parity codes
----------------
for example, protection on every two data blocks

```
a        b        c        d               <-- media stream
           f(a,b)            f(c,d)        <-- FEC stream
```

why XOR?
* effectiveness
* simplicity

in protocol design and implementation.

**important!** for implementation in embedded devices.

### Uneven Level Protection (ULP)
---------------------------------
* trade-off between the bandwidth and the protection strength.
    - different importance with different level of protection.

### transfer via separated stream
---------------------------------
* origin meida stream is not affected. clients without fec can work well.
* tracking the amount of fec.

## issues
* separated stream?
* redundant coding?
